---
layout: post
title:  "MBS Email #0"
date:   2023-07-17 16:35:54 +0200
categories: mbs_emails
---


Dear friends,

As you well know, I am currently enjoying the perks of unemployment. With the ample free time, I have decided to pursue some personal growth. To that end, I am designing, and vowing to maintain (that’s why you’re here!) a structured schedule, broken down into days and weeks, with goals in three broad categories. 

The three broad categories are, obviously, Mind, Body, and Soul. Within each, I hope to develop myself into the person I want to be. Each acts as a facet, a frontier of attack, in which I will hunt for personal improvement. Within each, there are a variety of activities I have long aspired to do consistently, yet I find I frequently start and stop (forgive me).

Let's explore the categories!

Mind:
Without a sharp mind, what do we have? Continuing to learn, grow, and engage with material, academic or not, is always something I aspire to do. To do so, here are the activities I want to do consistently.
Reading. An obvious choice. I want to read more. I want my Goodreads to inspire envy and jealousy. A friend reminded me recently that reading anything (assuming I enjoy it) is a better use of my time than damn near all social media. In the words of Ralph Waldo Emmerson: “I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.” So read I will.
Writing. I’ve only infrequently written for personal enjoyment (excluding journaling). Yet after a wonderful experience in creative nonfiction during my last quarter, I want to take it up. I’m not entirely sure what this looks like- I’m currently revising an essay on jealousy, and have considered simply trying to write a short essay on either a personal topic or an academic topic every week. I will keep you updated. My Goodreads reviews are a good start, though.
Personal projects. Recently, I’ve been learning Swift to try and build a focus app, mainly to do two things. First, track my habits. Ie I get a streak for days meditated sequentially, days journaled sequentially, or weeks with at least 3 runs. Second, create a hard block for my entire phone (email, music, texting) until I’ve done at least 10 minutes of meditation (or, frankly, anything else on this list). With this carrot-and-stick approach, I want to improve my habits.

Body:
Perhaps the most intuitive frontier, I would like to improve my body. While aesthetic ideals are certainly a contributing factor, I will try my best to make them neither goals nor targets. 
Running. A longtime love of mine, I want to continue to run, further and faster, purely because I know it's something I enjoy. Additionally, some structure and consistency will only make it more enjoyable - exploring scenic San Diego by foot has long been a favorite pastime.
Lifting. Pretty obvious. I want Paco's Thunder Thighs. I’ve started and stopped lifting regimens more times than I can count. I never regret having gone, only going. I’m considering committing to a specific number of times a week, with rewards for accomplishment, and punishment for failure. Unsure what that looks like so far.
Yoga &/or Stretching. Flexibility seems important. I’m not very flexible. Easy solution. In this first week, ironically, I’ve noticed this is the hardest habit for me to keep up with. I think the main reason is I don’t have a good idea of what exactly I should be doing (I know basic running workouts, have a lifting plan, but no yoga routine or stretching plan). Finding a good one is just something I’ll have to explore.

Soul:
The most nebulous of all, it’s difficult to pin down the space of goals that the soul represents. Maybe that's the fun of it. Yet I have some ideas that will keep me on the straight and narrow (I guess I should add therapy here?). The main goals are improving presence, becoming mindful, and accepting the things I can’t change. Bordering on Stoic beliefs, honestly.
Meditation. For calming my racing mind, reducing any underlying stress or anxiety, and simply becoming more present. The main things I’m focusing on in meditation are mindfulness.
Journaling. I’m journaling twice a day. In the morning, I’m taking notes on what my day will look like, writing down things I’m grateful for, and some goals I’d like to accomplish. In the evening, I’m summarizing my day and reflecting on the goals, accomplished or not.
Now, the daily and weekly plans to implement. This past week (week 0), I’ve been doing a trial run, testing the ideas put down here. It’s been incredibly valuable to have a low-stakes way to test some of these goals. Here is the schedule.


Daily:
Morning meditation
Morning Journal (focus on gratitude, goals, values, and )
Stretch/Yoga
Exercise (either run/lift, or a hike/swim, day dependent)
Daily reading
Daily writing
Daily project work
Evening meditation
Evening Journal (focus on reflection, accomplishment, the day prior)
Evening meditation

Weekly:
3 runs a week
1 short, slow
1 long
1 interval
3 lifts a week
ABAB schedule, so each week has alternative plans.
1 book review and book (at least)
Could supplement with 1 short essay a week, personal or academic, but that feels ambitious.



This whole thing seems like a lot of time and work, you might be thinking. I agree, honestly, and we’ll see how long it lasts. But I do have a few tricks to keep my motivation up. 

Having the structure outlined above will hopefully lower the resistance to actually doing each activity. The work will become part of my routine, similar to brushing my teeth. Ideally, I’ll become attached to the habits and feel “off” if I don’t complete them. 

I have a few aces for keeping time. One, obviously, is that I'm not working (which is lit, honestly). I eventually do need a job (and, technically, I have one lined up), but this whole “no calendar events” the moment I wake up means that time currently isn’t an issue. Additionally, I’ve quit social media. While going cold turkey on insta, fb, snap, etc isn’t new to me, I have also added youtube to the list of sites on hard block. That means on my phone, iPad, and computer, I can’t access anything (including private windows, wow). If I notice my screen time growing on any other sites (recently Zillow has been quite distracting- it's crazy what no distractions can do to you) I’ll block them as well.

This is a long one, so thanks for sticking with me! Know that as someone who I asked to be a part of this, you matter to me. I can definitively say that, because of you, your character, and your companionship, my life is better with you. Rest assured knowing that you will end up, by name, in the gratitude section of my journal, if you haven’t already.

I’m going to keep these weekly updates coming, every Thursday, until God smites me. Just kidding. I’m going to reevaluate/reassess in 30 days, but some of the things, like meditation and journaling, I want to do daily for at least 90 days. I’d be incredibly disappointed, and expect you to hold me accountable, if I stop. But also, if there's a way to improve this process, I will change the plan. I might add a visual component, where I document everything in a vlog-style format, trying to tap into the love I used to have for surf/skate/bike films. No, you can’t see them, and yes, these would be just as bad.

I’ll see you next week. Reach out and let me know what you think (positive feedback only, pleaseee)!!
